The 2019 South African Book Fair is jam-packed with activities that combine fun with a deeply enriching experience, making it the perfect day out for families. Taking place from September 6 to 8 at Constitution Hill in Johannesburg, experts in learning and teaching materials will be on hand to share their insights with parents, guardians and children on what books to read for learning and fun. Among the many family highlights is Stories of Africa, a multi-lingual storytelling by activist and poet Gcina Mhlophe, whose traditional tales of Africa deepen our understanding of history and encourage children to read. Also not to be missed is the acclaimed Dance of the Dung Beetles, which sees scientist Marcus Byrne and writer Helen Lunn bring to life the mysterious lives of the creatures through 3,000 years of history and mythology. Free performances take place in the National Book Week Magic Tent. From toddlers to grandparents, all are welcome to join in a celebration of the affirmative power of books and reading that includes:  An exciting focus on the role of visual storytelling can be experienced in multiple ways at the fair: Although schools are prioritised, there are a limited number of tickets available for parents and children to attend the fair’s dedicated Schools' Programme. This full day of storytelling, talks and workshops for pupils and educators on September 6 focuses on nurturing a love of books and reading. Highlights include a superhero drawing session with award-winning author Sifiso Mzobe. With plenty to eat and drink, easily accessible parking, public transport and more than 100 authors, poets, storytellers, creators and expert facilitators, the three-day event is not to be missed. One lucky family can win four weekend access tickets to the SA Book Fair and four session tickets, with a number of kids' books (valued at R500) as an added bonus. Entry details: Step 1: Follow SABF on Twitter, Instagram or Facebook and Sunday Times Books on Twitter or Facebook. Step 2: Create a tweet, Instagram or Facebook post sharing the reason(s) you read. (The post will essentially read "I #readbecause...") Step 3: Include the hashtag #SABF2019 in your tweet and/or post and voila, you've entered! Entries close on August 23. Happy sharing!