While some, like Kit Harrington, will take a much-deserved break after the end of Game of Thrones, other members of the cast are already working on other projects for the small and silver screens. What's in store for the actors behind the inimitable Tyrion, the fear-inspiring Daenerys and the indomitable Arya? Mere weeks after the end of the series, the actress who played Sansa will be back on screens as Jean Grey in the movie X-Men: Dark Phoenix, opposite Michael Fassbender and James McAvoy. She is also slated to appear in Matthew Coppola's forthcoming thriller Broken Soldier. The other Stark sister will be playing Rahne Sinclair, aka Wolfsbane, in the Josh Boone horror flick The New Mutants, out April 2020. She is also cast in thriller The Owners, directed by Julius Berg. After meeting her fateful end as fearmongering queen Cersei, the actress will do a 360 and join the cast of The Flood in the role of Wendy, a British immigration agent fighting for a refugee's rights. The drama will see her reunite with one of her former co-stars, Ian Glen, who played Jorah Mormont. The film is set to be released by the end of 2019. The Danish actor also finds himself reunited with a former partner, Carice van Houten (who played GoT's Melisandre), in the thriller Domino in which he will be playing a Copenhagen policeman. The film, slated for release sometime in 2019, is being directed by Brian De Palma. The actor will be lending his voice to the character of Mighty Eagle in The Angry Birds Movie 2,  and to another animated character, Phil Betterman, in The Croods 2 (alongside Ryan Reynolds and Emma Stone). He will be seen again on the big screen as the star of Brad Anderson's drama The Dwarf. GoT's Khaleesi will be trading in her dragons for Santa Claus's elves in Paul Feig's upcoming comedy Last Christmas. She will be sharing the romcom's bill with Emma Thompson and Michelle Yeoh. The film is due out in the US on November 8, 2019. Nathalie Emmanuel (Missandei) The Mother of Dragons' best friend will be leaving HBO for Hulu to star in the TV remake of Four Weddings and a Funeral, co-created by Mindy Kaling. Her fans will be able to stream her once more from July 31.